# IceCube-Data-Analysis
This project performs a statistical analysis and hypothesis testing of IceCube data of the TXS 0506+05 blazar from 2008 through 2017. In the project, I attempted to create a simplified version of the maximum likelihood estimation and likelihood ratio test that IceCube researchers used to confirm TXS 0506+056 as a source of neutrinos. My null hypothesis was that the neutrinos events did not come from the blazar; my alternative hypothesis was that they did. Whereas researches used flux density and spectral index as the two parameters in their estimation, I used mean and variance - parameters that proved much easier to work with. Originally, I assumed a normal distribution. After plotting each histogram with many different fits, I found that the data fit not a normal distribution but a log-normal distribution. Thus I used the logs of the maximum likelihood function and likelihood ratio. Using various Python packages to calculate the first derivate of the maximum likelihood function, I set this derivative equal to zero to find the critical point of the function. With this, I obtained the most probable values of the mean and variance for each sample. My results matched NumPy’s calculations with even greater certainty. Attempting to generate p-values for my calculation presented greater challenges. After attempting to code a single ratio function, I hit a wall and decided to type out the ratio function and insert each data sample with their mean and variance separately. This was not only a rudimentary approach but also more time-consuming. Should I go back to this project, I would like to program a smoother, more technical code. After obtaining test statistic values for each sample, I used the chi-squared probability density function to calculate the p-values. Further problems arose. The ratio of the null hypothesis over the probability of the alternative hypothesis should always be less than one. Thus, the log of this ratio should fall between 0 and 1, which my results do not show. My guess is that I did not properly - if at all - constrain my parameters under the null hypothesis. I also believe I did not properly use my values of the variances in calculating the test statistics. I would like to do more work on this project in the future to obtain appropriate results. 
